The main aim of this project is to make an e-commerce website that promotes products or acts as a product marketplace, or an educational website for disseminating information or creating awareness. Only HyperText Markup Language (HTML), Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) and JavaScript are allowed for creating the website.

The objective of this project is to create a responsive website using only HTML, CSS and JavaScript which include a contact form with validation, and a sign-up and login functionality. The website must also be compatible with different devices with different viewport sizes. All necessary functions, features and links must work as intended, and the design and colour theme should be well thought-out, relevant, and consistent across the whole website.

In this project, I have decided to create an e-commerce website that will promote my own products. The name of my company is called “Mel’s Birdies”. This website functions as a pet bird supplies and accessories store that sells products such as toys, food and treats, and grooming tools. Additionally, this website also includes a page for anyone to book an appointment for grooming or boarding services. Pet birds, specifically budgies, are my favourite animals as they are very cute, lovely, and affectionate. I have a passion for keeping pet birds and spending time with them, so creating a website that revolves around birds was the first thing I had in mind. 

The purpose of creating this website is mainly for the convenience of pet bird customers. Mel’s Birdies has a physical store located in a mall. Hence, most customers would be forced to park at the mall if they just want to buy my products, which may also impose parking fees. This makes it very inconvenient for them and thus, the e-commerce website was created as a means for customers to buy my products online while staying at home. Not only that, customers who wants to bring their pet birds for grooming or boarding services can also just book their appointment through a form on the website without needing to go to the physical store and check for available slots. 

The colour theme chosen for this website is green and blue. According to Cherry (2023), the colour green is often associated with nature and symbolises life. Most people find it as a relaxing colour. It is relevant to what this website revolves around – Birds. They are found commonly in the natural world and bird watching, as per a study by Reynolds (2022), is relaxing and has a positive effect towards people’s mental health and wellbeing. On the other hand, Cherry (2022) also says the colour blue often relates to calmness and sereneness as well as the feeling of peace and tranquility. Choosing this colour theme is important for giving my customers a good first impression on how it emphasizes on the friendly nature of pet birds and the feeling of calmness they bring.

Creating this e-commerce website will surely make my customers feel more relieved about not having to go to the physical store to buy my products as they just need to click a few buttons at home. This website would also indirectly promote my products to the outer public, and it could improve my business if they ever feel that they want a new pet bird.
